GENIEE PRETRAINING CORPUS V2

TOPIC: GENERAL SOFTWARE ENGINEERING

Software engineering is the systematic process of designing, developing, testing, deploying, and maintaining software systems.

A software system consists of source code, configuration, data, dependencies, infrastructure, and documentation. Software development involves understanding requirements, designing solutions, implementing functionality, validating behavior, and maintaining the application throughout its lifecycle.

A software development lifecycle commonly includes requirements analysis, design, implementation, testing, deployment, and maintenance.

Requirements describe what a software system should do. Functional requirements describe specific behaviors and capabilities. Non-functional requirements describe qualities such as performance, security, reliability, scalability, usability, and maintainability.

Good software should be readable, testable, maintainable, reusable, and reliable.

Modular software divides a large system into smaller components. Each component should have a clear responsibility and well-defined interfaces.

An API is an interface through which software components communicate. APIs allow applications to exchange data and invoke operations without requiring knowledge of the internal implementation.

Automation reduces repetitive manual work by allowing software tools and scripts to execute predefined operations.

Software testing provides information about the quality and behavior of software. Testing can identify defects, verify requirements, and reduce the risk of failures in production.

Continuous integration automatically builds and tests software changes. Continuous delivery and continuous deployment automate the process of preparing and releasing software.

TOPIC: PYTHON PROGRAMMING

Python is a high-level general-purpose programming language. Python emphasizes readability and provides a concise syntax.

Python programs can contain variables, expressions, functions, classes, modules, exceptions, loops, conditional statements, and data structures.

A variable stores a reference to a value.

Example:

name = "Geniee"
version = 1
learning_rate = 0.001

Python supports integers, floating-point numbers, strings, Boolean values, lists, tuples, sets, dictionaries, and objects.

Conditional statements allow a program to execute different code depending on conditions.

Example:

if score >= 90:
result = "excellent"
elif score >= 70:
result = "good"
else:
result = "needs improvement"

A for loop iterates over a sequence.

Example:

for item in items:
print(item)

A while loop repeatedly executes code while a condition remains true.

Functions allow reusable operations to be defined.

Example:

def add(a, b):
return a + b

Functions can accept positional arguments, keyword arguments, default arguments, and variable-length arguments.

Classes provide a mechanism for creating objects.

Example:

class User:

def __init__(self, username):
self.username = username

def login(self):
return True

Exception handling allows a program to respond to runtime errors.

Example:

try:
result = 10 / value
except ZeroDivisionError:
result = 0

A Python module is a file containing Python definitions and statements. Modules can be imported using the import statement.

Example:

import json
from pathlib import Path

Python can read and write files.

Example:

with open("data.txt", "r", encoding="utf-8") as file:
content = file.read()

Lists are ordered mutable collections.

Example:

numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

Dictionaries store key-value pairs.

Example:

user = {
"name": "Geniee",
"version": 1
}

Python supports object-oriented programming concepts including encapsulation, inheritance, abstraction, and polymorphism.

Python also supports comprehensions, generators, lambda expressions, decorators, context managers, and asynchronous programming.

Python is widely used for automation, testing, web development, data processing, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and scripting.

TOPIC: SOFTWARE TESTING

Software testing is the process of evaluating a software application to determine whether it satisfies specified requirements and behaves as expected.

Testing can identify defects before software reaches production.

A test case contains information required to verify a particular behavior. A typical test case contains a test case identifier, description, preconditions, test steps, test data, expected result, actual result, and execution status.

A test scenario describes a functionality or behavior that needs to be tested.

A test condition is a specific aspect of the system that can be verified.

The expected result describes what should happen when a test is executed.

The actual result describes what happened during test execution.

A test passes when the actual result matches the expected result.

A test fails when the actual result differs from the expected result.

Functional testing verifies that the application performs required functions.

Non-functional testing evaluates characteristics such as performance, security, usability, reliability, compatibility, and scalability.

Manual testing is performed by a tester without relying primarily on automated test scripts.

Automation testing uses software tools to execute tests automatically.

Unit testing verifies individual functions or components.

Integration testing verifies communication and interaction between components.

System testing evaluates the complete integrated application.

Acceptance testing verifies whether the software satisfies business and user requirements.

Regression testing verifies that existing functionality continues to work after changes are introduced.

Smoke testing is a broad initial verification that determines whether a build is stable enough for more detailed testing.

Sanity testing is focused testing performed after a change or fix to verify that a particular area behaves correctly.

Positive testing verifies expected behavior using valid inputs.

Negative testing verifies that the application handles invalid, unexpected, or incorrect inputs appropriately.

Boundary value analysis focuses on values at the boundaries of valid input ranges.

Equivalence partitioning divides input data into groups that are expected to behave similarly.

Exploratory testing combines learning, test design, and execution to investigate application behavior.

End-to-end testing verifies complete business workflows across multiple components.

Test data is information used during test execution. Test data can include valid values, invalid values, boundary values, duplicate values, empty values, and large values.

Assertions compare actual application behavior with expected behavior.

A defect is a deviation between expected behavior and actual behavior.

A defect report commonly contains a summary, description, environment, reproduction steps, expected result, actual result, actual result, severity, priority, attachments, and evidence.

Severity describes the technical or business impact of a defect.

Priority describes how urgently a defect should be addressed.

A critical defect may prevent a major business function from operating.

A high severity defect can significantly affect important functionality.

A medium severity defect may affect part of the application but allow alternative workflows.

A low severity defect usually has limited impact.

The defect lifecycle can contain states such as New, Open, In Progress, Fixed, Retest, Reopened, Verified, Closed, and Rejected.

When a developer fixes a defect, the tester should execute the relevant test again to verify the fix.

If the defect still exists, the tester may reopen the defect.

Testing should be repeatable, traceable, and measurable.

TOPIC: TEST AUTOMATION

Test automation uses software to execute predefined tests and evaluate application behavior.

Automation is useful for repetitive tests, regression suites, smoke tests, data-driven testing, and continuous integration.

Automation does not completely replace manual testing. Exploratory testing, usability evaluation, visual assessment, and many forms of investigation still benefit from human judgment.

A good automation framework separates test cases, test data, configuration, utilities, API clients, page objects, reporting, and reusable services.

Reusable automation components reduce duplication and improve maintainability.

A test framework should provide clear failure messages and useful logs.

Test isolation is important because one test should not unnecessarily depend on the state created by another test.

Independent tests can execute in parallel more safely than tests with hidden dependencies.

A flaky test is a test that sometimes passes and sometimes fails without a corresponding change in the application.

Common causes of flaky tests include timing issues, unstable test data, environment instability, race conditions, external dependencies, and unreliable selectors.

Stable automation requires reliable locators, proper synchronization, isolated data, deterministic environments, and meaningful assertions.

TOPIC: PLAYWRIGHT

Playwright is a browser automation and end-to-end testing framework.

Playwright supports browser automation for Chromium, Firefox, and WebKit.

A browser represents a browser process.

A BrowserContext provides an isolated browser session.

A Page represents a browser tab or page.

A Locator identifies an element or group of elements on a page.

Locators provide methods for interacting with web elements.

Examples include:

page.get_by_role("button", name="Sign In")
page.get_by_label("Email")
page.get_by_text("Dashboard")
page.locator("input[name='email']")

The get_by_role locator identifies an element using its accessible role.

Example:

page.get_by_role("button", name="Sign In").click()

The get_by_label locator identifies a form control using its associated label.

Example:

page.get_by_label("Email").fill("user@example.com")

The get_by_text locator identifies elements based on visible text.

Example:

page.get_by_text("Welcome").click()

CSS selectors can identify elements using HTML attributes, classes, IDs, and relationships.

Example:

page.locator("#username")

XPath can also identify elements, although stable semantic locators are generally preferred when available.

The page.goto method navigates to a URL.

Example:

page.goto("https://example.com")

The page.click method can click an element.

The page.fill method enters text into an input field.

Example:

page.get_by_label("Email").fill("user@example.com")

Playwright provides automatic waiting for many actions and assertions.

Assertions can be implemented using the expect API.

Example:

expect(page.get_by_text("Dashboard")).to_be_visible()

A screenshot can be captured using the screenshot method.

Example:

page.screenshot(path="login.png")

Playwright supports network interception and request monitoring.

Playwright can also perform API testing using APIRequestContext.

Authentication state can be saved using storage_state.

A storage state can contain cookies and local storage required for an authenticated session.

Playwright can be integrated with pytest using pytest-playwright.

A common Playwright Python project contains test files, page objects, fixtures, configuration, test data, utilities, and reports.

TOPIC: SELENIUM

Selenium is a browser automation framework commonly used for web application testing.

Selenium WebDriver provides an interface for controlling browsers.

A WebDriver session represents a connection between the test and a browser.

Selenium supports browser interactions such as navigation, clicking, typing, selecting options, and retrieving element properties.

Common Selenium operations include get, click, send_keys, clear, and find_element.

Example:

driver.get("https://example.com")

An element can be located using strategies such as ID, name, class name, tag name, CSS selector, XPath, link text, and partial link text.

Example:

driver.find_element(By.ID, "username")

Explicit waits allow tests to wait for specific conditions.

Example:

WebDriverWait(driver, 10).until(
EC.visibility_of_element_located((By.ID, "username"))
)

Implicit waits configure a default waiting period for element searches.

Explicit waits are generally preferred when synchronization needs to be specific and predictable.

Selenium Page Object Model organizes page-specific locators and actions into reusable classes.

The Page Object Model improves readability and reduces duplication.

TOPIC: API TESTING

API testing verifies the behavior, reliability, security, and correctness of application programming interfaces.

An API allows software components to communicate.

REST APIs commonly use HTTP methods such as GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE.

GET is commonly used to retrieve data.

POST is commonly used to create a new resource or submit data.

PUT is commonly used to replace or update a resource.

PATCH is commonly used for partial updates.

DELETE is commonly used to remove a resource.

An HTTP request can contain a method, URL, headers, query parameters, path parameters, cookies, and request body.

An HTTP response contains a status code, headers, and response body.

Common HTTP status codes include:

200 OK
201 Created
202 Accepted
204 No Content
400 Bad Request
401 Unauthorized
403 Forbidden
404 Not Found
409 Conflict
422 Unprocessable Entity
429 Too Many Requests
500 Internal Server Error
502 Bad Gateway
503 Service Unavailable

A 200 response generally indicates a successful request.

A 201 response generally indicates that a resource was created.

A 400 response indicates that the server could not process the request because of invalid input or syntax.

A 401 response indicates that authentication is required or invalid.

A 403 response indicates that the client is authenticated but does not have sufficient permission.

A 404 response indicates that the requested resource could not be found.

A 500 response indicates an internal server error.

API tests should verify status codes, response schemas, required fields, data types, headers, authentication, error messages, and business rules.

Positive API tests use valid requests.

Negative API tests use invalid requests and verify appropriate error handling.

API tests can validate JSON response bodies.

Example JSON:

{
"id": 101,
"name": "Geniee",
"active": true
}

API authentication can use sessions, cookies, API keys, OAuth tokens, JWT tokens, or other mechanisms.

An API test should not expose secrets such as passwords, private keys, access tokens, or credentials in source code.

TOPIC: REST API CONCEPTS

REST stands for Representational State Transfer.

A RESTful API commonly exposes resources through URLs.

For example:

GET /users

can retrieve users.

A resource can be identified by a path.

Example:

GET /users/101

can retrieve the user with identifier 101.

Query parameters provide optional filtering or pagination information.

Example:

GET /users?page=2&limit=20

Path parameters identify a specific resource.

Example:

GET /users/101

Request headers provide metadata about a request.

Common headers include Content-Type, Accept, Authorization, User-Agent, and Cookie.

The Content-Type header describes the format of the request body.

The Accept header indicates response formats that the client can process.

JSON is commonly used for API request and response bodies.

API pagination allows large result sets to be divided into smaller pages.

Rate limiting controls how many requests a client can make during a specified period.

Idempotency describes whether repeating the same request produces the same intended state.

GET, PUT, and DELETE are generally considered idempotent when implemented according to HTTP semantics.

API contracts define expected request and response structures.

TOPIC: PYTEST

pytest is a Python testing framework.

A pytest test function commonly starts with the prefix test_.

Example:

def test_addition():
assert 2 + 3 == 5

Assertions verify expected behavior.

pytest discovers test files commonly matching patterns such as test_*.py or *_test.py.

Fixtures provide reusable test setup and teardown.

Example:

import pytest

@pytest.fixture
def user():
return {
"name": "Geniee"
}

A test can use the fixture as an argument.

Example:

def test_user(user):
assert user["name"] == "Geniee"

Fixtures can have scopes such as function, class, module, package, and session.

Parametrization allows a test to execute with multiple sets of input data.

Example:

@pytest.mark.parametrize(
"a,b,expected",
[
(1, 2, 3),
(2, 3, 5),
(5, 5, 10),
]
)
def test_addition(a, b, expected):
assert a + b == expected

pytest supports markers for categorizing tests.

Examples include smoke, regression, api, ui, and integration.

pytest can generate output and integrate with reporting tools.

pytest can be combined with Playwright to create browser automation tests.

TOPIC: HTML CSS AND DOM

HTML defines the structure of a web page.

An HTML document contains elements such as html, head, body, div, form, input, button, label, heading, paragraph, and link elements.

Example:

<input
type="email"
name="email"
id="email"
placeholder="Enter Email"
>

Attributes provide additional information about an element.

The id attribute identifies an element.

The class attribute associates one or more CSS classes with an element.

The name attribute is commonly used by forms.

The type attribute identifies the type of an input element.

The label element describes a form control.

Example:

<label for="email">Email</label>
<input id="email" type="email">

Accessibility attributes can provide additional semantic information.

The aria-label attribute provides an accessible name when appropriate.

The DOM represents the document as a tree of elements.

A parent element contains child elements.

An ancestor is an element higher in the DOM hierarchy.

A descendant is an element contained within another element.

A sibling is an element that shares the same parent.

CSS selectors identify elements based on structure, attributes, classes, IDs, and relationships.

Example:

input[type="email"]

A stable automation locator should preferably use meaningful semantics or stable attributes rather than fragile generated CSS classes.

Dynamic classes can change between builds and may cause test failures.

Accessibility-based selectors such as role and label can make automation more resilient when the application provides good semantic markup.

TOPIC: GIT

Git is a distributed version control system.

A repository stores project history and source code.

A commit records a set of changes.

A branch provides an independent line of development.

The main branch commonly represents a stable development line.

Common Git commands include:

git init
git clone
git status
git add
git commit
git push
git pull
git fetch
git checkout
git switch
git merge
git rebase
git log

The working tree contains files currently being edited.

The staging area contains changes prepared for a commit.

A commit should represent a meaningful logical change.

Pull requests allow changes to be reviewed before merging.

Code reviews help identify defects, maintainability issues, security problems, and design concerns.

TOPIC: CI CD

Continuous Integration is the practice of frequently integrating changes into a shared repository and automatically building and testing those changes.

Continuous Delivery automates the preparation of software for release.

Continuous Deployment automatically deploys changes that pass required checks.

A CI pipeline can include source checkout, dependency installation, compilation, linting, unit tests, integration tests, API tests, UI tests, artifact generation, and deployment.

Automated testing is an important part of CI/CD because it provides rapid feedback.

A failed pipeline should provide enough logs and evidence to diagnose the failure.

Test reports can be stored as pipeline artifacts.

Screenshots, videos, traces, logs, and API responses can help diagnose automated test failures.

TOPIC: MACHINE LEARNING

Machine learning is a field of artificial intelligence in which models learn patterns from data.

Training data is used to optimize model parameters.

A model maps input information to predictions or representations.

The training process typically consists of a forward pass, loss calculation, gradient calculation, and parameter update.

A loss function measures the difference between model predictions and desired targets.

An optimizer updates model parameters using gradients.

Training loss measures model performance on training data.

Validation loss measures performance on held-out validation data.

Overfitting occurs when a model learns the training data too specifically and performs poorly on unseen data.

Increasing training data can improve generalization.

A neural network consists of layers containing learnable parameters.

Deep learning uses neural networks with multiple layers.

Transformers are neural network architectures that use attention mechanisms to process sequences.

TOPIC: TRANSFORMERS

A Transformer is a neural network architecture designed for processing sequences.

Transformers use attention mechanisms to model relationships between tokens.

A token is a discrete unit of text processed by a language model.

Tokenization converts text into token identifiers.

A vocabulary maps tokens to integer identifiers.

An embedding layer converts token identifiers into dense vectors.

Positional information allows the model to distinguish the order of tokens.

Self-attention allows each token representation to interact with other token representations.

Multi-head attention uses multiple attention heads to learn different relationships.

A feed-forward network applies nonlinear transformations after attention.

A Transformer block commonly contains attention, normalization, residual connections, and a feed-forward network.

A decoder-only Transformer predicts the next token based on previous tokens.

Causal attention prevents a token from attending to future tokens during autoregressive language modeling.

For example, given:

The cat sat

the model can learn to predict a likely next token such as:

on

Next-token prediction is the foundation of autoregressive language models.

The model produces logits for each vocabulary token.

A softmax operation can convert logits into probabilities.

Temperature controls the randomness of sampling.

A lower temperature makes generation more deterministic.

A higher temperature produces more varied outputs.

Top-k sampling restricts candidate tokens to the k most probable tokens.

Top-p sampling restricts candidate tokens to a probability mass selected by cumulative probability.

Greedy decoding selects the highest-probability token.

Autoregressive generation repeatedly predicts and appends one token at a time.

TOPIC: LANGUAGE MODEL TRAINING

A language model learns statistical relationships between tokens.

During pretraining, a sequence of tokens is divided into input and target sequences.

For next-token prediction, the target sequence is shifted relative to the input.

For example:

Input:
The cat sat

Target:
cat sat down

The model learns to predict each target token from the preceding input context.

Cross-entropy loss is commonly used for next-token prediction.

A vocabulary of size V produces V logits for each token position.

If a sequence contains L positions, the model produces logits with a shape similar to:

batch_size x sequence_length x vocabulary_size

The training loop typically performs these steps:

1. Load a batch.
2. Move the batch to the selected device.
3. Perform a forward pass.
4. Calculate the loss.
5. Clear previous gradients.
6. Backpropagate the loss.
7. Clip gradients if required.
8. Update model parameters.
9. Record training metrics.
10. Evaluate validation performance.

A checkpoint stores information required to resume or evaluate training.

A checkpoint can contain model parameters, optimizer state, epoch information, configuration, and validation metrics.

Validation data should not be used to directly optimize model parameters.

Perplexity is commonly calculated from language-model loss.

For cross-entropy loss L, perplexity can be represented as:

perplexity = exp(L)

Lower validation loss generally indicates better next-token prediction performance on the validation data.

TOPIC: GENIEE

Geniee is a custom decoder-only Transformer language model.

Geniee uses a tokenizer to convert text into token IDs.

The tokenizer vocabulary contains 2048 tokens in the current experimental configuration.

The model uses a maximum context length of 128 tokens in the current experimental configuration.

The current experimental Geniee architecture contains 8 Transformer layers.

The model dimension is 512.

The attention mechanism uses 8 attention heads.

The feed-forward hidden dimension is 2048.

The model uses dropout during training.

Geniee is trained using next-token prediction.

The training objective is cross-entropy loss.

Geniee can generate text autoregressively.

During generation, the prompt is converted into token IDs.

The model predicts logits for the next token.

A decoding strategy selects a token from the predicted distribution.

The selected token is appended to the input sequence.

The process repeats until the requested number of tokens has been generated or a stopping token is produced.

Geniee is intended to become a domain-focused language model for software engineering, testing, automation, APIs, and related technical tasks.

A small model trained on a very small corpus can demonstrate the complete machine-learning pipeline but may not produce high-quality language.

Meaningful language-model quality requires substantially more diverse training data.

The quality of training data is important because the model learns patterns present in that data.

Training data should be clean, diverse, relevant, and free from unnecessary duplication.

A domain-focused model should contain information representative of the tasks it is expected to perform.

TOPIC: SOFTWARE AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE

A maintainable automation framework should separate responsibilities.

A typical architecture can contain:

tests
pages
services
clients
utils
config
data
reports

Test files contain test scenarios and assertions.

Page objects contain page-specific locators and actions.

Service classes contain reusable business operations.

API clients provide reusable HTTP operations.

Configuration files contain environment-specific settings.

Test data files contain values required by tests.

Utilities provide reusable helper functions.

A layered architecture reduces coupling between tests and implementation details.

For example, a login test should ideally call a login operation rather than duplicate low-level implementation throughout every test.

Reusable API clients can provide methods such as:

get
post
put
patch
delete

An API client should handle common concerns such as headers, authentication, timeouts, response parsing, and error handling.

Authentication can be centralized in an authentication service.

Test configuration can be loaded from environment variables or configuration files.

Secrets should not be hardcoded in source code.

A robust automation framework should produce logs and reports that make failures easy to diagnose.

TOPIC: TEST DATA

Test data is information used during test execution.

Good test data should be deterministic, isolated, realistic when required, and easy to maintain.

Positive test data represents valid inputs.

Negative test data represents invalid inputs.

Boundary test data represents values at or near input limits.

Examples for a numeric field accepting values from 1 to 100 include:

0
1
2
50
99
100
101

Empty values can be used to verify required-field validation.

Duplicate values can be used to verify uniqueness constraints.

Large input values can be used to test field length limits and application stability.

Data-driven testing allows the same test logic to execute against multiple input combinations.

Parameterized tests are a common way to implement data-driven testing.

TOPIC: DEBUGGING

Debugging is the process of identifying and resolving the cause of an unexpected behavior.

A good debugging process starts by reproducing the problem.

The next step is to inspect error messages, stack traces, logs, inputs, outputs, and application state.

A stack trace identifies where an exception occurred and can help identify the code path that produced it.

The root cause should be distinguished from symptoms.

For example, a timeout may be caused by a slow API, an incorrect selector, an authentication problem, or an unavailable environment.

Logging useful contextual information helps diagnose failures.

In browser automation, screenshots, videos, traces, DOM snapshots, and network logs can provide useful evidence.

In API testing, request URLs, HTTP methods, status codes, headers, payloads, and response bodies can help diagnose failures.

A reproducible failure is easier to investigate than an intermittent failure.

Small isolated experiments can help determine whether a problem originates from the application, test framework, environment, configuration, or data.

TOPIC: QUALITY ENGINEERING

Quality engineering focuses on building quality into the software development process rather than relying only on testing at the end.

Quality includes correctness, reliability, security, performance, usability, maintainability, and observability.

Test automation provides fast feedback but should be combined with code reviews, static analysis, monitoring, and good development practices.

Shift-left testing means introducing validation earlier in the development lifecycle.

Shift-right testing includes monitoring and validation of software behavior after deployment.

Observability commonly involves logs, metrics, and traces.

A quality engineering strategy should align testing activities with business risks.

High-risk functionality should receive appropriate levels of validation.

Automation should prioritize tests that provide valuable and repeatable feedback.

TOPIC: CORE AUTOMATION CONCEPTS

An automation system can combine browser automation, API automation, test generation, test execution, reporting, and intelligent analysis.

A test generation system can convert structured test cases into executable automation code.

A structured test case may contain:

test case ID
title
preconditions
steps
test data
expected results

A code generator can map these concepts to automation framework operations.

For example, a test step such as:

Enter email in the Email field

can be represented in Playwright as:

page.get_by_label("Email").fill(email)

A step such as:

Click the Sign In button

can be represented as:

page.get_by_role("button", name="Sign In").click()

A step such as:

Verify Dashboard is visible

can be represented as:

expect(page.get_by_text("Dashboard")).to_be_visible()

Automation intelligence can also analyze failed tests and identify likely causes.

Self-healing locators attempt to recover when a previously used locator no longer matches the intended element.

Locator strategies should prioritize semantic and stable attributes.

AI-assisted automation can use language models to interpret test cases, generate code, summarize failures, classify defects, and suggest corrective actions.

A useful automation assistant should provide deterministic results when deterministic behavior is required and should expose enough evidence to allow humans to verify generated results.

The long-term goal of an automation intelligence system is to reduce repetitive engineering effort while maintaining reliability, traceability, and human oversight.
